README.md, before:

# MediDiagnose - AI Medical Diagnosis System

A full-stack medical diagnosis system powered by AI, built with React + Vite, Node.js, Express, and MongoDB.

## 🚀 Features

- **AI-Powered Diagnosis**: Symptom analysis with AI predictions
- **Patient Dashboard**: Track medical history and diagnosis sessions
- **Doctor Dashboard**: Review patient cases and provide medical feedback
- **Secure Authentication**: JWT-based authentication system
- **Real-time Updates**: Live diagnosis status updates
- **Responsive Design**: Beautiful UI built with Tailwind CSS

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React 18** with **Vite** for fast development
- **React Router** for navigation
- **Axios** for API calls
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Heroicons** for icons
- **React Hot Toast** for notifications

### Backend
- **Node.js** with **Express**
- **MongoDB** with **Mongoose** for database
- **JWT** for authentication
- **Bcrypt** for password hashing
- **Joi** for validation
- **Helmet** for security

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- MongoDB (local or MongoDB Atlas)
- npm or yarn

## 🔧 Installation

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd demo
```

### 2. Install Backend Dependencies

```bash
cd backend
npm install
```

### 3. Install Frontend Dependencies

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### 4. Environment Setup

#### Backend (.env)
Create a `.env` file in the `backend` directory:

```env
PORT=5000
NODE_ENV=development
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/medical-diagnosis
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secure_jwt_secret_key_change_in_production
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:5173
```

#### Frontend (.env)
Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory:

```env
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api
```

## 🚀 Running the Application

### Development Mode

#### Start Backend Server
```bash
cd backend
npm run dev
```
Server will run on http://localhost:5000

#### Start Frontend Development Server
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```
Frontend will run on http://localhost:5173

### Production Build

#### Build Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
```

#### Start Backend in Production
```bash
cd backend
npm start
```

## 👥 Demo Accounts

After first run, the system creates demo accounts:

**Doctor Account:**
- Email: `doctor@demo.com`
- Password: `demo123`

**Patient Account:**
- Email: `patient@demo.com`
- Password: `demo123`

## 🌐 Deploying to Vercel

### 1. Install Vercel CLI

```bash
npm install -g vercel
```

### 2. Login to Vercel

```bash
vercel login
```

### 3. Deploy

```bash
vercel
```

### 4. Environment Variables on Vercel

Set the following environment variables in Vercel dashboard:

**For Backend:**
- `MONGODB_URI`: Your MongoDB Atlas connection string
- `JWT_SECRET`: Your production JWT secret
- `NODE_ENV`: production
- `FRONTEND_URL`: Your Vercel frontend URL

**For Frontend:**
- `VITE_API_URL`: Your Vercel backend API URL

## 📁 Project Structure

```
demo/
├── backend/
│   ├── config.js
│   ├── server.js
│   ├── database/
│   │   └── db.js
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── User.js
│   │   ├── PatientProfile.js
│   │   ├── DoctorProfile.js
│   │   ├── DiagnosisSession.js
│   │   ├── AuditLog.js
│   │   └── aiModel.js
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── auth.js
│   │   ├── diagnosis.js
│   │   └── users.js
│   ├── middleware/
│   │   └── auth.js
│   └── package.json
├── frontend/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   ├── contexts/
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── services/
│   │   ├── App.jsx
│   │   └── main.jsx
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── vite.config.js
│   ├── tailwind.config.js
│   └── package.json
├── vercel.json
└── README.md
```

## 🔐 Security Features

- Password hashing with bcrypt
- JWT token authentication
- Rate limiting on API endpoints
- Helmet.js for security headers
- Input validation with Joi
- CORS configuration

## 📝 API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints
- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login user
- `GET /api/auth/profile` - Get user profile
- `PUT /api/auth/profile` - Update user profile

### Diagnosis Endpoints
- `POST /api/diagnosis/submit` - Submit new diagnosis
- `GET /api/diagnosis/history` - Get patient history
- `GET /api/diagnosis/pending` - Get pending cases (doctors)
- `GET /api/diagnosis/:id` - Get specific diagnosis
- `PUT /api/diagnosis/:id/review` - Review diagnosis (doctors)
- `GET /api/diagnosis/stats/overview` - Get statistics

### User Endpoints
- `GET /api/users/patients` - Get all patients (doctors)
- `GET /api/users/patients/:id` - Get patient details
- `GET /api/users/search/patients` - Search patients
- `GET /api/users/activity/:id?` - Get activity logs

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## 🆘 Support

For support, email support@medidiagnose.com or open an issue in the repository.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This is a demonstration application for educational purposes. It should not be used for actual medical diagnosis. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional for medical advice.

Commit message:

Add doctor session review tab and API improvements
Introduces a new '/diagnosis/all' API endpoint for doctors to fetch all diagnosis sessions, including reviewed and closed. Updates DoctorDashboard to include tab navigation for pending and reviewed sessions, improves error handling and feedback, and enhances session review logic. Also updates README license and support info.

README.md, after:

# MediDiagnose - AI Medical Diagnosis System

A full-stack medical diagnosis system powered by AI, built with React + Vite, Node.js, Express, and MongoDB.

## 🚀 Features

- **AI-Powered Diagnosis**: Symptom analysis with AI predictions
- **Patient Dashboard**: Track medical history and diagnosis sessions
- **Doctor Dashboard**: Review patient cases and provide medical feedback
- **Secure Authentication**: JWT-based authentication system
- **Real-time Updates**: Live diagnosis status updates
- **Responsive Design**: Beautiful UI built with Tailwind CSS

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **React 18** with **Vite** for fast development
- **React Router** for navigation
- **Axios** for API calls
- **Tailwind CSS** for styling
- **Heroicons** for icons
- **React Hot Toast** for notifications

### Backend
- **Node.js** with **Express**
- **MongoDB** with **Mongoose** for database
- **JWT** for authentication
- **Bcrypt** for password hashing
- **Joi** for validation
- **Helmet** for security

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- MongoDB (local or MongoDB Atlas)
- npm or yarn

## 🔧 Installation

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd demo
```

### 2. Install Backend Dependencies

```bash
cd backend
npm install
```

### 3. Install Frontend Dependencies

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### 4. Environment Setup

#### Backend (.env)
Create a `.env` file in the `backend` directory:

```env
PORT=5000
NODE_ENV=development
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/medical-diagnosis
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secure_jwt_secret_key_change_in_production
FRONTEND_URL=http://localhost:5173
```

#### Frontend (.env)
Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory:

```env
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api
```

## 🚀 Running the Application

### Development Mode

#### Start Backend Server
```bash
cd backend
npm run dev
```
Server will run on http://localhost:5000

#### Start Frontend Development Server
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```
Frontend will run on http://localhost:5173

### Production Build

#### Build Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
```

#### Start Backend in Production
```bash
cd backend
npm start
```

## 👥 Demo Accounts

After first run, the system creates demo accounts:

**Doctor Account:**
- Email: `doctor@demo.com`
- Password: `demo123`

**Patient Account:**
- Email: `patient@demo.com`
- Password: `demo123`

## 🌐 Deploying to Vercel

### 1. Install Vercel CLI

```bash
npm install -g vercel
```

### 2. Login to Vercel

```bash
vercel login
```

### 3. Deploy

```bash
vercel
```

### 4. Environment Variables on Vercel

Set the following environment variables in Vercel dashboard:

**For Backend:**
- `MONGODB_URI`: Your MongoDB Atlas connection string
- `JWT_SECRET`: Your production JWT secret
- `NODE_ENV`: production
- `FRONTEND_URL`: Your Vercel frontend URL

**For Frontend:**
- `VITE_API_URL`: Your Vercel backend API URL

## 📁 Project Structure

```
demo/
├── backend/
│   ├── config.js
│   ├── server.js
│   ├── database/
│   │   └── db.js
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── User.js
│   │   ├── PatientProfile.js
│   │   ├── DoctorProfile.js
│   │   ├── DiagnosisSession.js
│   │   ├── AuditLog.js
│   │   └── aiModel.js
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── auth.js
│   │   ├── diagnosis.js
│   │   └── users.js
│   ├── middleware/
│   │   └── auth.js
│   └── package.json
├── frontend/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   ├── contexts/
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── services/
│   │   ├── App.jsx
│   │   └── main.jsx
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── vite.config.js
│   ├── tailwind.config.js
│   └── package.json
├── vercel.json
└── README.md
```

## 🔐 Security Features

- Password hashing with bcrypt
- JWT token authentication
- Rate limiting on API endpoints
- Helmet.js for security headers
- Input validation with Joi
- CORS configuration

## 📝 API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints
- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login user
- `GET /api/auth/profile` - Get user profile
- `PUT /api/auth/profile` - Update user profile

### Diagnosis Endpoints
- `POST /api/diagnosis/submit` - Submit new diagnosis
- `GET /api/diagnosis/history` - Get patient history
- `GET /api/diagnosis/pending` - Get pending cases (doctors)
- `GET /api/diagnosis/:id` - Get specific diagnosis
- `PUT /api/diagnosis/:id/review` - Review diagnosis (doctors)
- `GET /api/diagnosis/stats/overview` - Get statistics

### User Endpoints
- `GET /api/users/patients` - Get all patients (doctors)
- `GET /api/users/patients/:id` - Get patient details
- `GET /api/users/search/patients` - Search patients
- `GET /api/users/activity/:id?` - Get activity logs


## 📄 License

This project is reserved to Youssef Waleed and Ali Mohamed Hassanein. PROJECT IS FOR GRADUATION PROJECT, SHOULD NOT BE USED IN REAL LIFE AS IT IS NOT FINISHED OR TAILORED TO USE IN THE REAL WORLD, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

## 🆘 Support

For support, email youssef.waleed2231@gmail.com

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This is a demonstration application for educational purposes. It should not be used for actual medical diagnosis. Always consult with a qualified healthcare professional for medical advice.
